
- Every time I want to store an item in memory, I ask the computer for some space, and it gives me an address where I can store the item. If I want to store multiple items, there are two ways to do it: **arrays and lists** (linked lists).

- An **array** means that all tasks are stored right next to each other in memory.

- We can ask the computer for 10 slots, just in case. Then I can add 10 items to the list without needing to move anything. This is a good way to handle the problem of potentially needing to place another item in the array and having to move everything due to lack of space, but be aware of the disadvantages:
    - I might not need the extra slots I reserved; then memory is wasted. I am not using the memory I asked for, but no one else can use it either.
    - I might need to add more than 10 items to the task list, and then I'll have to move the items anyway.

- With **linked lists**, items can be anywhere in memory.

- Each item stores the address of the next item in the list.

- Adding an item to a linked list is easy: I place it anywhere in memory and store the address in the previous item.

- Linked lists are great if you want to read all items, one at a time. If you want to read one item and jump to another, linked lists are **terrible**.

- **Arrays** are great for reading random elements because you can find any element instantly in an array. In a linked list, elements are not next to each other, so you cannot instantly calculate an element's position in memory.

- The position of an element is called its **index**.

- What if you want to delete an element? It is easier to do this using linked lists, as you only need to change the address the previous element is pointing to. With arrays, everything needs to be moved when an element is eliminated.

- Unlike insertions, deletion of elements will always work. Insertion might fail when there isn't **enough space in memory**.

- Insertions and deletions will have a run time of $O(1)$ only if you can instantly access the element to be deleted.

- Arrays are more common because they allow random access. There are 2 types of access: **random and sequential**. Sequential means reading elements one by one starting at the first.
    - Linked lists can only handle sequential access.

- **Selection sort** is a good algorithm, but not very fast. **Quicksort** is a faster sorting algorithm, which has a run time of only $O(n \log n)$.

- **Recap:**
    - When you want to store multiple elements, use an **array** or a **list**.

    - In an **array**, all elements are stored right next to each other.

    - In a **list**, all elements are scattered, and one element stores the address of the next element.

    - Arrays allow for faster reads.

    - Linked lists allow for fast insertions and deletions.

    - All elements in an array must be of the same type.