- Which approach seems easier? The first approach uses a while loop. While the pile exists, grab a box and look inside:

    def look_for_key(main_box):

        pile = main_box.make_a_pile_to_look_through()

        while pile is not empty:

            box = pile.grab_a_box()

            for item in box:

                if item.is_a_box():

                    pile.append(item)

                elif item.is_a_key():

                    print "Found the key"

- The second way uses **recursion**.

- ***Recursion*** is when a function calls itself. Let's see:

    def look_for_key(box):

        for item in box:

            if item.is_a_box():

                look_for_key(item)

            elif item.is_a_key():

                print "Found the key"

- Recursion is used to make the answer *clearer*.

- Loops can improve the program's performance, but the function improves the programmer's performance.

- All recursive functions have two parts: $the\ base\ case\ and\ the\ recursive\ case$.
    - The **recursive case** is when the function calls itself.
    - The **base case** is when the function does not call itself again, so that the program doesn't turn into an infinite loop.

- The computer uses an internal stack called the ***call stack***.

- When you call a function from another, the function call is paused in a partially completed state. All variable values for that function are still stored in memory.

- Recursive functions also use the call stack.

- Each of these function calls takes up a bit of memory, and when the stack is too full, it's a sign that the computer is saving information for too many function calls. For this option, there are two choices:
    - Rewrite the code using loops.
    - Use what is called *tail recursion*.

- Recap:
    - Recursion is when a function calls itself.
    - A stack has two operations: $push\ and\ pop$.
    - All function calls go onto the call stack.